OSSM-9322 Istio ambient mode getting started docs (#95032)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ossm-about-istio-ambient-mode.adoc

// * service-mesh-docs-main/install/ossm-istio-ambient-mode.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: Concept
[id="ossm-about-istio-ambient-mode_{context}"]
= About Istio ambient mode

To understand the {istio} ambient mode architecture, see the following resources:

ZTunnel proxy:: A per-node proxy that manages secure, transparent Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) connections for all workloads on the node. It operates at Layer 4, offloading mutual Transport Layer Security (mTLS) and L4 policy enforcement from application pods.

Waypoint proxy:: An optional proxy that runs per service account or namespace to provide advanced L7 features such as traffic management, policy enforcement, and observability. L7 features can be applied selectively, avoiding the overhead of sidecars for every service.

Istio CNI plugin:: Redirects traffic to the Ztunnel proxy on each node, enabling transparent interception without requiring modifications to application pods.

{Istio} ambient mode offers the following benefits:

* *Simplified opeartions* that removes the need to manage sidecar injection and lifecycle, reducing the complexity of mesh adoption and operations.

> * *Reduced resource consumption* by centralizing the L4 feature in the Ztunnel proxy that reduces resource overhead per pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Reduced resource consumption* with a per node Ztunnel proxy that provides L4 service mesh features and reduces resource overhead per pod.
```

> * *Incremental adoption* that enables workloads to join the mesh with the L4 features like mutual Transport Layer Security (mTLS) and basic policies and also, opt for the L7 features selectively using `waypoint` proxies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Incremental adoption* that enables workloads to join the mesh with the L4 features like mutual Transport Layer Security (mTLS) and basic policies with optional `waypoint` proxies added later to use L7 service mesh features, such as HTTP(L7) traffic management.
```
